We are told that a triangular number, when it is multiplied by 8 and then 1 is added to it, yields a square number. For example, we have that the third triangular number is 6, and `6 x 8 + = 49 = 7 x 7`.

The nth triangular number happens to represent the sum of the first n integers. The progression goes:

```
1, 3, 6, 10, 15, 21, ...
```

We are tasked with finding a _geometric_ proof for the given statement. For fun, we can gain some confidence by proving the statement _algebraically_, first.

## Algebraic proof

We recall that an _oblong_ number is a triangular number with "twice the number of dots." The term *oblong* comes from the fact that the geometric, triangular representation of a triangular number is a triangle with n dots on a side (the first triangular number has 1 dot, the 4th has four dots on a side and 10 total dots), while the "doubled" rectangle resulting from stacking a copy of the triangle on itself yields `n(n + 1)' dots, so the side lengths don't match. Defined in terms of the number of dots in a representation of an oblong number, a triangular number has `n(n + 1) / 2` dots in total, where n is the "index" of the triangular or oblong number to which we are referring. Again, the 3rd oblong number has twice the dots of the 3rd triangular number (which has 6 dots).

Now for the algebra:

```
8[(n(n + 1) / 2)] + 1 = 4n(n + 1) + 1 = 4n^2 + 4n + 1
```

We know we are looking for this expression to be some square number, call it q^2.

```
4n^2 + 4n + 1 = (2n + 1)(2n + 1) = q^2
```

So `q = 2n + 1`. This completes the algebraic proof and hints towards a solution to our geometric proof: we might wish to pack 8 copies of the triangular number (drawn as a triangle of dots) into a square `2n + 1` dots on a side. We will ideally need to fill in one missing dot; that is what the "plus 1" provides.

## Geometric proof

```
    a
  a a
a a a
```

```
a a a d D D D
a a A d d D D
a A A d d d D
A A A e C C C
b b b B c C C
b b B B c c C
b B B B c c c
```
The number 8 can be thought of as `2 x 2 x 2` or `2 x (4)`. Essentially, it can be decomposed, or factored. Let's start concrete. Take the third triangular number, which is 6. We have 6 dots in a triangle. Form the corresponding oblong number, geometrically. You now have a 3 x 4 rectangle with 12 dots. This would logically correspond to having doubled our dots, or used up one of the "2" factors in the multiplication by 8. Is there a way to rearrange 4 copies of these oblongs (`12 x 4 = 48` dots in total) and then fit one more dot in a 7 by 7 array of dots? If so, a square number has been represented geometrically, and we might hope to prove this for any particular triangular number.

If you play with this on paper, one finds that the orientation of each oblong grid can be flipped so that a square is formed with a dot missing in the center of the grid. The "plus 1" dot finishes the grid.

In general, each oblong has dimensions `n` by `n + 1`. Recalling the need to alternate the orientation of the oblongs in the concrete example where n was 3, we might hope to achieve a side length for our geometric square of `2n + 1` by always laying a "short" oblong side next to the longer oblong side; we see that `n + (n + 1) = 2n + 1`. As for the remaining dot we must place, symmetry and the "rectangular" nature of the oblongs suggests it ought to belong in the center of the square. Since 8 is an even number, and an even multiplied by either an odd or even number is an even number, our square must be an odd number. This makes sense, since our expression for the side length forces the side to be an odd number, and an odd number times an odd number is an odd number.

Since we formed each square with a rotational symmetry and we know each square must have a center, since it has an odd side length, we know the remaining dot must be placed in the center of the grid.

As a corollary, we notice that our square number, formed by multiplying a triangular number by 8 and adding 1, will necessarily be odd. It may be represented by a square grid of dots with an odd number of dots on a side.
